---
layout: blog
subject: "Updates"
title: "0.1 Open Beta - Announcement"
date:   2019-12-8 00:00:00 -0500
categories: updates
permalink: /:categories/0.1/
minibanner: update-010.png
author: Bradasparky
image: /assets/blog/images/sd-olderlogo-banner.png
hidden: true
---

Don't fall asleep Eastern Hemisphere because I have an announcement to make! About a year ago when TF2008, based upon TF2-Base created by Nicknine, and distributed by the TF2008 discord owner XYK, was "the" source mod to play for old TF2. People were a little too eager to play. Every day, members from the discord would spam msg XYK about whether or not more steam keys were available. 
A few weeks later, he learned that Valve would not put TF2008 on steam, and Valve would not grant XYK any more steam keys. This led to a lot of stress for XYK, and so this led to the discord server going out with a bang, full of TF2 community members. Soon after, a few of us who were the most active on TF2008's server were gathered into a private discord, where a continuation of TF2008 was talked about. 
We all had a distaste for the actions of XYK, and 2 of our members, Retro and Kippy, came up with the idea of going back a few years when TF2 was still in beta. After Technochips joined in with a prototype of the Nail Gun, we knew that this project was viable. 

From that moment, Pre-Fortress was born. Tonight, the dev team has made the decision to give you guys an early Christmas present in the form of an Open Beta! 

# Note:
- Map exploits/glitches (2fort has an areaportal issue)
- Retail models and textures (These are not finished so we did not include them in the Open Beta)
- No map is 100% complete
