---
layout: blog
subject: "Blog"
title: "Questions and Answers"
date:   2022-05-31 00:13:00 -0500
categories: blog
permalink: /:categories/:slug
hidden: true
author: Cyanide
ImageDescription: "Poster by Wendie"
description: "Pre-Fortress 2 developers respond to some of the communities pressing question."
image: /assets/blog/images/sb-qna.png
NoImageEffect: 1
---

A while back we asked on our Twitter if you had any questions regarding any aspect of PF2. I've gone through and answered them to the best of my ability.

**Some of these questions were joke questions "disguised" as actual questions, but if someone thought of them ironically they're probably gonna be asked sincerely down the road so I've treated them as genuine.**

## Questions

> Will grenades ever be changed? More specifically, will frag grenades remain a part of the game when class specific grenades exist already.

- We don't have any plans to remove the additional frag grenades most classes have. Removing half the grenade options for almost all classes doesn't make sense when the core appeal of the mod is the grenades.

> Shotgun for Medic?

- A shotgun allows the medic to play way too far outside of his intended TF2 role. In magazine promo's for TF2 from late 2006, statements such as:

    *"The medic has been completely changed in terms of how he works to previous TF"* 

    *"The medic class has been thoroughly gutted and redesigned"* 

    were made, which is a pretty clear indication that in 2006, the era the mod is based on, the medic was likely closer to the TF2's incarnation than he was to TFC's.

> We need a crowbar (all class melee weapon)!

- There are currently no plans to add weapons reskins. They don't really add anything to the game. 

    In 2020 work was done on reskins. At the time the loadout we had was just a glorified nailgun-SMG switcher for medic and scout, and adding reskins to that really just accentuated how little the loadout did for the game. So reskins was scrapped because it was wasting time that could be spent on actual content.

> Will you get your senses and remove the slowing effect of the tranq dart? It's fundamentally terrible game design and is one of the worst things than can be done to a game like Team Fortress.

- The goal of the mod is twofold: make a playable version of the TF2 beta, and make it fun. *Shockingly* these 2 goals are sometimes incompatible with one another. If we were making a TF2 mod with different goals the tranquilizer, and by extension the caltrops, would likely cease to exist through iteration, but we're making a beta mod and that comes along with certain problems that are just part its identity. Even with the "we are no longer a beta accurate mod" we can't really take those weapons out as they are undeniably part of the beta. We've lessened the impact of the tranq and caltrops by reducing the speed penalty and decreasing the duration, but there isn't really much more we can do other than strip it out or rework it to the point of unrecognizably, and no one has really come forward with any good alternatives.

> Will the unique voice lines be restored since you're moving away from being entirely beta-accurate?

- We're restoring the unique voice lines as their absence negatively impacted the playability of the game. It made it a lot harder or impossible to quickly communicate certain messages such as calling out a spy or an upcoming sentry. We've left in the beta death screams however because they're funny.

> Will the Silenced Pistol be reconsidered down the long run?

- Other weapons have and continue to be considered, the silenced pistol is a weird one though. It was added to the mod because (we were desperate for more content) there is a piece of concept art that has the spy holding it. But if you've played TFC you'd know that the model for the tranq is a silenced pistol.

> Will grenades be their own weapon slots?

- If you mean like a weapon that appears in your weapon selection HUD, no. Grenades work the way they do because that's how they functioned in the beta and prior Team Fortress games.

> Will some of the grenade models be changed to be more distinct?

- They're really as distinct as you can get them. If it's a visibility problem there's only so much we can do without the solutions becoming egregious. Randomly dying to a well thrown grenade you couldn't see is just kind of the nature of the mod and is likely a big reason grenades got the axe in TF2.

> Bot support?

- Not in the near future sadly. We don't have a coding wizard.

> Will the servers be fixed?

- *Probably.* We've resolved the crashes that were present in 0.6, but there's always the possibility of a new unforeseen bug.

> Will you guys ever update the menu?

- There is a new main menu.

> Will you add the female mercs?

- The female version of the mercs were not conceived until after the game's release, and as such are not beta and not within the scope of our mod.

> Are you going to nerf area of effect grenades like napalm, nail, and gas grenade?

- Those grenades have received changes to reduce their potency, both directly and through the implementation of other mechanics. 

> Will you add the spawnroom turrets from TFC?

- They're implemented in-game but as of right now no maps shipping with the next update will utilize them.

> Will you add [*cut weapon from after the beta*]?

- The repair node isn't beta, the fire retardant suit isn't beta, the DNA gun isn't beta, the walkabout isn't beta, the catcher mit isn't beta, the overhealer isn't beta. I think you get the message.

> Will you the civilian gamemode, 4-team and other concepts from from TFC?

- Adding the civilian/escort gamemode is still up in the air, likely as a way to support existing TF2Classic maps. However, 4-team is a definite no. The primary reason against the inclusion of these is because we don't really have anything to bring to these gamemodes that isn't done better elsewhere, other than the inclusion of grenades. Adding them would also require a lot more time and we already have enough on our plate without the addition of gamemodes necessitating the creation of even more content. TF2Classic already does both escort the VIP and 4-team probably as best as they can be done.

    On adding other concepts from TFC, we probably will, but no promises on what those could/would be.

> Why do PF2 updates take so long to come out?

- The PF2 Team is primarily comprised of students. For the most part, our relatively small team works on PF2 as a hobby between semesters. While we do have dedicated developers who are not in school, one or two people can not do all the work required to ship out an update themselves.

> When can we expect and update?

- We hope the update will be ready this summer when most of our staff is on break from classes.